---
layout: log
title: "Feb 1st - Feb 7th"
---

- Another week of daily exercise, another week of better mood.
- I usually do my share of the house cleaning on the weekends, which feels like a dreadful activity that's following me around until I get it done (even though all I want to do is chill). I decided to try do my cleaning on Thursdays instead, and this week I had a weekend all to myself, which felt much nicer.
- On Saturday we went on a long walk and picked up burgers on our way back home. It was a very nice – yet cold – day out and I very much enjoyed it. I find going on daily walks has strengthened my tolerance to weather changes and I don't mind the cold as much anymore as long as I'm wearing the right clothing for it.
- I'm still not reading as much as I'd like to, but I'm trying to chill out a bit about that, as I'm working on new habits that are also healthy and I believe have greater impact on my current life (daily exercise and learning piano).
- At work, I have continued to document what I do every day. I have to admit I'm not as consistent as I'd like to be, so that's something I'll continue working on.
- We have started watching [_Homeland_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homeland_(TV_series)), which I guess is now considered an old show. So far we're enjoying it, but it's early days.
- I'm still reading the same books I've been reading for the last six weeks, so I won't even bother listing them. Movie-wise, this week we've watched [_The trial of the Chicago 7_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Trial_of_the_Chicago_7) and [_Guess who's coming to dinner_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guess_Who%27s_Coming_to_Dinner), both of them good films.
