---
layout: log
title: "Jan 25th - Jan 31st"
---

This has been a week of taking a step back and looking at what's going on, because what's going on... well, it could be better. My mood has been on the low end of things for the last few weeks, and I'm going to try make some adjustments this week to see if they make any difference. I'm a morning person, yet lately I've been lying in bed until later than my normal and getting up right before breakfast and stand up (which is at 10am). It's great that my team works 10-18, but it would make more sense for me to wake up at 7:30 and do the things I like doing less. such as exercising. I've been on a couple of morning (brisk) walks this week and I felt a lot better aftewards, so I'm going to try to do this every day this week, even if they are shorter walks. If raining, I will do some yoga instead, nothing too straining.

The piano fever of last week died out and now there's only work and happiness after completing every new challenge. After trying out different things, I have decided to go for *Alfred's Piano Adventures (Level 1)*, accompanied by Youtube recordings of every music sheet in the book. It's a slow process of learning to use the two hands on the piano, learning how to keep up with the tempo, etc., and it can be frustrating at times, but it's also rewarding once I manage to play it all in one go. I'm recording myself from time to time, but not sure if I want to share that here yet.

At work, I'm going to start working on documenting my process better. It was all go, go, go in the beginning, but now we're at a point where I have the time to document and be more careful, so I have searched for a Notion template to start doing that.

Content-wise, not much has changed as the piano takes up a lot of my time and I'm not reading as much.

- We are still watching [_Money heist_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Money_Heist).
- I'm still reading [_I contain multitudes_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27213168-i-contain-multitudes) by Ed Yong and [_The Eighth Life_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41071389-the-eighth-life) by Nino Haratischwili. Both of these are _very_ long, so I don't expect to finish either of them until end of February. We'll see.
