---
layout: post
title: "Understanding The UX Brief"
---

This is a spinoff of [The Nuffield Health project](nuffield-health).

## The brief

Now, I’ve been trying to find a better metaphor for this, but the truth is I
kind of like this one. This is a representation of our brief.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/flashy.jpeg)

It was flashy. It was big. And it was slightly intimidating. Here’s a flashback
to me recapping on the brief a few weeks ago. It’s all a bit meta.

> Our client wanted an app that would allow their customers to **book medical
> appointments **and other Nuffield Health services, but the app should also
**track the user’s health progression and encourage them to quit unhealthy
habits and incorporate better lifestyle choices** into their lives.

At first we were so excited it was a bit scary. We knew what we were going to
do. It’d be an app. We’d have, like, a section for booking and, like, another
section for making doctor’s appointments. It was all fine. A booking process! We
definitely knew how to do that.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/flying_birds.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">This is the three of us happily flying across the sky</span>

So we started doing our interviews, finding out what people’s habits were,
checking out the competition — all of the things. It was fine.

When the time to start sketching arrived, we were ready. We were *more *than
ready. We were smashing it.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/running_bird.jpeg)

## And then we hit a bump

> But the app should also track the user’s health progression and encourage them
> to quit unhealthy habits and incorporate better lifestyle choices into their
lives.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/confused_bird.jpeg)

So we started working on that health tracker, which could count steps, and
inform you on your sleep patterns, and offer you nutritional advice, and keep a
log of your body stats and your colesterol levels. It was awesome!

We did many variations on that, because why not.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/bird_drawings.jpeg)

And we had a decent tracker by the end of the process. I mean, it didn’t do all
of the things, but it did *some* of the things, and it was the best we could do
in two weeks. We covered two white walls with our sketches.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/white_wall.jpeg)

## And then, another bump

And then Max said:

> Yeah, it’s a decent tracker, but it doesn’t “encourage them to quit unhealthy
> habits and incorporate better lifestyle choices into their lives”, and it
doesn’t bring joy. It’s not joyous.

And Hugo was, like, “you’re totally right, Max!”. And this was us now.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/flying_birds_two.jpeg)

It took me a few hours to catch up, I will admit that. I mean, by that point we
weren’t hitting our deadlines anymore and I was worried that we were
overthinking it and that we wouldn’t be ready for presentation day by the end of
the week. Because we only had four days to go, and we didn’t even have a prototype.
We didn’t even have some *sketches.* And we were expected to present a
high-fidelity clickable prototype by Friday.

But I eventually did. I caught up. There’s a photo of the three of us flying in
unison above and focusing on designing a joyous app, so I won’t repeat myself.

## Going back to the brief, the research and our very own personal experiences

There was this section in our brief that required us to come up with a way to
encourage people to make better lifestyle choices. At first we thought a health
tracker would solve this problem, because surely *knowing* that their colesterol
levels were high and their weight way above what was recommended would encourage
users to change their habits.

Does it, though? Don’t people *know* that already? Don’t they know that they
should eat their greens and exercise three hours a week? Are not doctors,
friends, TV advertising, books and famous people already telling them that? And
yet [two-thirds of the UK population are overweight or
obese](https://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2014/may/29/how-obese-is-the-uk-obesity-rates-compare-other-countries).

Why?

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/horizon_birds.jpeg)

We didn’t have a lot of time to do a proper research, but we did realise quite
quickly that the problem revolved around habit building rather than knowledge.
We didn’t need to *inform* anyone — we had to *encourage* them to make better
lifestyle choices, to change their habits.

I’d done some research on habit building earlier in 2017, and I remembered a
popular [TED talk ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AdKUJxjn-R8&t=27s)by BJ
Fogg, PhD, the creator of the concept of [Tiny Habits](http://tinyhabits.com/).
According to BJ Fogg, only three things will change behaviour in the long term.

* **Having an epiphany**
* **Changing your environment** (what surrounds you)
* **Taking baby steps**

BJ Fogg goes on to claim that taking baby steps is the way to go because it’s
easy, it makes you feel good and it’s — therefore– rewarding.

## Making healthier habits a delight

Becoming healthier has never been this fun. Maybe this is a bit of an
overstatement, but it’s our app, so we feel sort of entitled to say this.

Below are the first sketches of a set of screens we called *Goals Screens.* **The user is prompted to set a new goal, and then is taken through several
screens that give them several options, briefly explain the benefits of the
selected goal and finally guide them through the process of completing it.**

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/user_flow.png)

And here’s the final prototype.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/final_prototype.png)

## Conclusions: understanding the problem

I loved how this brief was not about an app, or a set of requirements, or even
about the design itself. This brief was about a problem, a real problem, which
is that we — in general– lack willpower.

It allowed us to tap into the psychological aspects of habit building and made
us realise that more often than not design is not about the technicalities of
the product but, rather, it’s about understanding what the problem really, truly
is.

![](images/blog/understanding_ux/enlightened_bird.jpeg)

